---
layout: default
title: "Exploring Netsh"
date: 2021-01-02
permalink: /netsh/
categories: windows roguepotato
---

An unsuccessful attempt to use `netsh` to make RoguePotato work.
<!--more-->

# Exploring Netsh

Recently, I was faced with an interesting situation where I had code execution as a Windows service account, with SeImpersonatePrivilege. My first thought was to use one of the Potato family of exploits - the box was running on Windows Server 2019, meaning that JuicyPotato would not work. My next option was to use RoguePotato - a similar exploit, but with a requirement that you are able to gain control of port 135 on another box.

Normally this is simple, and I simply start a `socat` relay on my host machine to echo any connections to port 135 back to the victim machine. However, this wasn't possible, as I was tunnelling into the victim via a Domain Controller I had SYSTEM code execution on - meaning port 135 was permanently in use by the RPC endpoint mapper service. So, how to proceed?



<u>Attempt 1: Kill the service</u>

"How important is this service anyway?" I thought, and began searching for ways to perform this. First, I used the Windows Service manager to track down the service - I found it, but every single option was greyed out, which makes sense, but then why list it in the dialogue at all? So, maybe a more direct approach was required. 

I used `netstat` to track down the PID of the process listening on port 135, and navigated to it in Task Manager. However, clicking the end task button presented me with a popup explaining that killing this service could affect stability - and gave me the option to 'cancel' or 'shut down' (apparently, "quite important" is the answer to that question.)

"Affect stability" - I took this to mean that the box would keep chugging along as best it could, but would run into issues doing anything using RPC. Sounds fine, right? All I need is to relay one connection anyway - if the box crashed a minute or so later then that was good enough for me. With this thought, I entered `taskill /f /pid <pid>` - and immediately lost several shells and my RDP session. Presumably, either some important service immediately triggered and wasn't able to communicate, leading to a crash - or Windows just constantly checks if the service is up, and panics if not. Either way, if Windows won't let you stop a service, there's probably a good reason why!

<u>Attempt 2: Rebind the service to only listen locally</u>

This was a short lived attempt - some blog posts and docs implied that the service could bind to only localhost - this would mean that the box should still be able to communicate internally, meaning it wouldn't crash, and I could bind my listener to the external interface. I wasn't able to get this working, and some closer reading revealed it meant that the temporary high ports that RPC uses for communication could be modified to only listen locally - which obviously wouldn't help.

<u>Attempt 3: Sidestep the service entirely</u>

During my research into Windows networking related topics, I came across an interesting utility - `netsh portproxy`. This is an on-box firewall-level port forwarding tool. It allowed specifying a 'listen' address and port, and a connect address/port. Connections to `<listenaddr>:<port>` would be instead sent to `<connectaddr>:<port>`. Sounded promising, so I setup an experiment. Listening on the publicly accessible IP, I forwarded 6000 to 7000 (also on the box), and setup listeners on both ports. I then connected from my host box to 6000 on the DC and - the port 7000 listener receives a connection! This meant that due to being a firewall-level forwarder, the active listener on port 6000 was entirely bypassed.

All seemed ready, so I setup the 135->7000 forwarder, connected to 135 and... nothing. I ran an `nmap` scan, the listening port was still reported to be the RPCSS service. I tried again, with port 445 to test, and got the same result. I also checked forwarding 136 (making sure the failure reason wasn't due to it being a < 1024 port). This worked as expected.

Why does this happen exactly? I don't know, but I believe I can take some educated guesses. Perhaps these system-critical services listen at the firewall level (somehow?), and the RPC service is hit before the `netsh` check. Alternatively, (and more likely), certain ports are blacklisted for `netsh` by Windows, and the rules are silently dropped. This makes sense as it would make MITM attacks like this significantly harder to perform. 

As a closing thought, it's possible that this blacklist does not apply to port 5985, meaning attacking using RogueWinRM would be possible. Either way, I moved on and found another route, but I'd love to know if anyone has any thoughts/knowledge on this subject!
